[THEME MUSIC]
>>ERICH VON DANIKEN:
We have all heard
of the myths and the
legends of our history,
but is there another story?
India is full of gods.
There are hundreds of them.
And most of them are
related to the sky.
They were descending
from the sky.
And all of these gods are
linked to the extraterrestrials,
because they all were teachers.
They all taught
humans in mathematics,
in calendars, and et cetera.
For example, there is
the almighty god Shiva.
And Shiva had a flying
machine, a flying bird.
This flying bird was Garuda.
And Garuda was
flying around Shiva.
Now, Garuda was not a normal
bird, because Garuda even
flew to the moon.
Garuda was able to fly
away from our solar system.
Garuda also used bombs.
Garuda was bringing
his master, Shiva,
to different places in our
solar system, not only on Earth.
So Garuda was a
kind of spaceship,
space vehicle, et cetera.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Every Indian temple-- if it
is thousands of years old,
or if it's even
constructed in our days--
every Indian temple, on
the top, has a vimana.
Now, the vimana, I said
before, had different shapes.
But on every top of an
Indian temple, still
today, you have a vimana.
Some of the vimanas
look like today's UFOs.
They had the shape,
round or elliptical.
Other vimanas had
a another form.
But still on top of the
Indian temple is a vimana.
And the vimana was one of the
flying machines of the Hindu
gods.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Vimana is what we would
call today a space shuttle.
It's just a small
space vehicle which
moves between the planet and
the mother spaceship in orbit.
But with the vimana itself,
you don't make space travel
from star to star.
These diagrams are
not extremely old.
Some of these diagrams
were created only
in the 17th century.
They are not thousands
of years old in some
of these Indian books.
These designers, who
made these diagrams,
they designed it
out of the old text.
They read the old text and,
because of these texts,
they made a design.
Well, it must have looked
like that and that.
But the fact is there were
different types of vimanas,
which looked
completely different,
comparable to a helicopter
and a jumbo jet.
It's not the same thing,
but both machines can fly.
The idea of chariots of the
gods has come in the Bible
with the prophet Ezekiel.
But the prophet
Ezekiel, again, you
can compare to Indian chariots.
You know, what the Indian
gods were flying in chariots.
The chariots were
always vimanas.
The chariots were always what
we would call a space vehicle,
but not mother spaceships.
The chariots only
had a small distance
they could move in
our solar system,
but not to another star.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
These Indian descriptions
about flying machines
are not just fantasy,
are not just allegories.
No.
They were real, because
the humans saw them,
and whole groups of humans
saw them, and then described
what they saw.
They described that one of the
gods descended with the vimana.
And the humans, hundreds of
them, were watching them.
They described that
some of these vimanas
had wheels and
others had no wheels.
They described the noise
which the vimanas made.
At least some of the
vimanas made noise.
Others were quiet.
So all of this, we
have descriptions--
descriptions handed down
and written by humans.
Just read the book Drona Parva.
It's full of these flying
machines of ancient India.
Professor Dr. Kanjilal, who is
a Sanskrit professor of Sanskrit
College in Calcutta--
a brilliant man-- he
has, in our modern time,
translated some of
these Indian Vedas
in a special book with
the name "Flying Machine
in Ancient India."
And this is a proper
scientific work.
It's like in the
Bible, for example.
In the Bible, you have Moses,
First Book of Moses, chapter 3.
Then, verse number 27.
The translation of Professor
Dr. Kanjilal is the same things.
He writes in such a way
that chapter xy, verse xy,
and so on.
It's a scientific work.
There is absolutely no doubt--
no-- for the one who knows
that, in India, flying machines
were described, and different
types of flying machines.
And there is no doubt that
there were spaceships-- mother
spaceships-- which were
around the Earth in an orbit.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The vimanas were
the small vehicles.
We would today call the
vimana space shuttles.
You see, in orbit, you
have the mother spaceship.
The old Indian called the
mother spaceship cities
in the sky, at least
in the translation.
In the Drona Parva, they
clearly say that one of the gods
destroyed the three cities
with a gigantic weapon.
The weapon was shining
brighter than the sun.
The elephants were
turning around.
burning and crying.
All the animals were
crying and dying.
Every metal, which the
warriors had on their body,
they took off and cried,
because the metal was hot,
was cooking it.
The birds who were flying
fell down from the sky,
because it was all too hot.
And then, they
say even those who
were far away, in the far
distance of the weapon
from heaven, the unborn
child in the mother's womb
died, because they were all
infected by the rays of gods.
So in that time, nobody
could have known something
about radiation; about x-rays.
They could not have known
that even the unborn babies
in the mother's womb
would die because of it.
But this is clearly handed
down in the Drona Parva,
part of The Mahabharata.
You see, in our
Christian-Judeo tradition,
we have what we
Christians call the Bible,
or the Jewish community
call the Torah.
So maybe this is,
let's say, 500 pages.
But the Indian traditions,
these are 5,000 pages.
It's not comparable.
And you know, all the other
traditions-- the written
traditions-- disappeared.
I said before the Maya books
were destroyed, except three,
and two of them we cannot read.
In South America, the
Incas, they had no writing.
In India, they had writing, an
incredible amount of writing.
The same thing
happened in Tibet.
Tibet is the highland.
There are two writings
which survived,
the Kangyur and the Tengyur.
These are the holy writings
of the Tibetan society.
And again, it starts that the
gods descended from heaven.
Now, these gods in Tibet, they
have names which you cannot
spell out.
And one of these gods
definitely was the teacher,
because he teach.
Their students explained
how he looked like.
He looked like a
human, by the way.
He was very, very
smart, very nice.
And when he disappeared, they
described how he took off
from the earth in a vimana.
And all the students
were watching the vimana.
It went slowly, slowly
up, and they saw it,
that the vimana has become
smaller and smaller.
They described it, finally,
it was so small like an egg.
And then, it was becoming
like a little point,
and then it disappeared.
And before this god
in Tibet disappeared,
he left, like in
other societies,
writings for mankind.
But the writings, some were, he
says, hidden in a hiding place
and will all only come
to the eyes of the humans
again when the time is ripe.
Obviously, we don't have
these writings of the gods.
The time is not ripe yet.
India is the land of the gods.
Everything is always
connected together.
Even when we hear
the story of Arjuna--
he was up in a
mother spaceship--
it's the same story as we hear
from another part of the world,
from Enoch, who was up there,
who learned the language.
It's all different names, but
in the base, the same stories.
Arjuna was the one who was up
there in the cities of the sky.
And he was there many
times, not only once.
Between his visits
from the sky, he always
returned to the Earth.
Arjuna even gives the
name of his pilot.
The pilot's name was Matali,
who brought him up there.
And Arjuna describes that he saw
hundreds of different vimanas
up there.
There were three cities in
the firmament, not in heaven.
Heaven can be a
space of happiness.
Heaven can be a place
where we go after that.
Heaven can even be the
place where the gods rule.
But here, the three cities
were in the firmament.
The humans observed the three
cities in the firmament.
They described them, because
they looked differently.
Now, Arjuna was one
of the humans who
was up there in
these three cities,
and he describes
the three cities.
He describes the fight.
And he describes that there
were many, many vimanas.
Vimanas are different,
have different shapes.
There is not only
one type of vimana.
You see today, we have different
shapes and types of aircraft.
A helicopter is not the
same thing as a jumbo jet.
Or a military fighter
is not the same thing
as a private aircraft.
We have different
shapes in aircraft.
The same thing happens
in ancient India.
All these vimanas had different
qualities, different speed,
et cetera.
Some of the vimanas transported
20 humans out there.
Others of the vimanas had only
room for two or three humans
or gods.
Some of the vimanas had wheels.
With the wheels, they
could land on Earth,
and they could move on Earth.
Other vimanas had no wheels.
They could not land on Earth.
They were always
standing over the ground.
There are differences
in vimanas.
So the funny thing is all
of this is Indian tradition.
It's all in The Mahabharata.
And on Earth, there
are no industries
to construct the vimanas.
So the whole knowledge of the
vimana comes from outside.
There is no
technological evolution
for the vimanas on Earth.
There is no report that some
humans constructed vimanas,
that there was some
sort of vimana industry
or an evolution in technology
to create the vimana.
The vimanas always
came from the gods.
And the gods, again, came
in their mother spaceships,
which the old Indian
called cities in the sky.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Every god who landed at some
place, the place on Earth
became holy.
And the humans were happy to be
visited and taught by the gods.
In honor of the gods,
the humans made temples.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Always like in Maya land, Tikal.
Tikal has a gigantic pyramid,
because the gods landed one
year.
In old India, it's
same situation.
They constructed
pyramids, which are
comparable to the pyramids
in Central America,
not comparable to the
pyramids in Egypt.
The pyramids in Egypt had
this form of a triangle.
Not the pyramids in India or
the pyramids in Central America.
They look like towers.
And the pyramids in Egypt,
they have no sculptures on it--
no heads, no design, nothing.
But the pyramids in
India and the pyramids
in Central America, they are
full of heads, and sculptures,
and chiselings, and
writings, et cetera.
Now, in the Hindu mythology,
they describe twins.
The name of the twins
were the Maruts.
And they clearly say
that the Maruts were
flying between the continents.
They were flying between
India and Central America.
So both continents were
influenced by the same gods.
That's why we have the
same type of pyramids,
step pyramids like towers,
not comparable to Egypt,
because the Maruts--
the twins, the Maruts--
were flying.
The Maruts were
flying with vimanas.
And the flying
machines of the Maruts
were described, again,
in the Drona Parva.
They described
that the machines--
the flying machines
of the Maruts--
made a terrible noise.
But the Maruts-- the twins--
they could fly all over
the planet, wherever they
wanted without landing,
without refuel, so their energy
must have been something which
we cannot understand.
By the way, energy of the
vimanas, in some of the texts,
the energy is described--
the fuel, what they
used as energy--
but we are not able to
translate everything.
I know Professor
Doctor Dileep Kanjilal.
He's one who can read
the Sanskrit text.
And he told me we found writings
about the fuel, the composition
of the fuel, and there are
some words which we understand.
For example, part of
it was quicksilver.
We can translate the
word quicksilver.
Part of it was mica.
We know what mica is, OK?
But other components of the
fuel, we cannot translate.
Some of them sound like honey.
Honey?
What kind of honey?
There are different kinds.
Something sweet, something-- you
know, we have no translation.
If we would have
the translations
of all the components
of these vimana fuels,
then we probably would have
a new energy for our machines
here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Many of our so-called
myths have dates--
dates about the
humans and the kings.
And these dates are, for
us humans, impossible.
I was talking about Palenque.
In Palenque, there's
tombstone under the temple
of the Pyramid of Inscriptions.
Palenque, there is Pakal,
the second ruler of Palenque.
In the grave, there are
datings which you can read.
And one of the datings gives
a figure of 1,200,000 years
before Pakal.
How is this possible?
Or in ancient Sumeria, we
had the so-called Kings List,
which today is in the
British Museum in London.
And there, they give the names
of all the Sumerian kings
before the great flood.
It comes together more
than 200,000 years.
And then, the flood comes.
And after the flood,
the gods descended again
from the sky, and the gods
who ruled after the flood,
still together they
ruled 24,000 years,
and 301 years and a few months.
We have exact dates.
Now, in India, again,
in the Indian mythology,
we find impossible dates.
All these dates are confusing.
You have a possibility but
it's really speculation.
We all know, when you
are in a spaceship, which
travels in a very,
very high speed,
the time between the spaceship
and the planet is different.
So an astronaut who
would fly, let's
say, to the next solar
system, to Proxima Centauri,
with a very high
speed would maybe
become only a few years older,
while on the planet Earth,
2,000 or 3,000 years
might have passed.
So it might be that
these so-called gods
in the universe, they were
traveling with high speed.
And on Earth, in fact, hundreds
and thousands of years passed.
But we are still talking
about the same gods.
But that's not the final answer.
That's one of the possibilities.
When I speak to
Western scientists,
for example, Germans
or Swiss Indologists,
they say, we are talking
about the stories in the Veda.
They say, well, it's maybe
about 500 BC, not older.
When I ask the same questions
to Hindu professors, which
know much more than
our Western scientists,
they are saying at least
6,000 years in the past.
It's much older than
what we thought.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
First, the extraterrestrials,
finally, they went back home.
Some of the mother
spaceships were destroyed.
At least two of them,
we know from Arjuna,
they were destroyed.
One of the mother spaceships
simply disappeared,
because the gods--
the so-called gods--
they behaved themselves like
today's ethnologists would do.
They study some group.
They teach some group.
They give some advice.
And finally, they
disappear again.
They don't want to die
here on this planet.
They run away.
And the vimanas, they
take them with this.
Of course, when we
today have ethnologists
with high technology.
Our ethnologists, for example,
they have a photo apparatus,
you know.
Or maybe they have a
light in their hand.
They have technology.
Maybe they have a rifle,
whatever, a weapon.
So all these precise
instruments-- photos, light,
et cetera-- our ethnologists
take back with them again.
They don't leave it there.
The same thing
happened in the past.
Their technology disappeared,
because they took it back
with them.
And if we had some cases
where some objects were left,
we are talking about
6,000 years from now.
Just compare it, in
the Second World War,
some nations were fighting
against each other.
There were tanks.
Tanks at that time, in
the Second World War,
I just remember the
tanks of Hitler,
they were composed of
the most modern steel--
15 centimeters thick of steel.
Where all these tanks today?
Where is all the steel?
It's nothing.
Where are the hundreds of
aircraft, which existed,
or thousands of aircraft,
in the Second World War?
Most of them disappeared because
they were simply shot down.
The tanks were destroyed.
And some of them
survived in the museum.
That's all that there is.
A tank from the Second World
War lying down in the desert,
it's nothing than a bit of rust.
That's all.
So the objects of
extraterrestrials
do not exist anymore.
I would be glad to find the
next extraterrestrial hammer,
where I can write there,
well, made on Jupiter.
But we don't have
something like this.
All these stories are not
mythologies or allegories.
You know, a mythology is
something which once was
reality, which the following
generations cannot understand.
I'll give you an example.
Imagine that our planet
Earth would be destroyed,
for whatever the reason is.
It doesn't matter.
And a few people would
survive, let's say, somewhere
in the high Andes or in Tibet.
Now, what would
these few humans do?
They want that the human race
survive, so they make children.
Now, imagine there is a father
and he has his 2-year-old boy
on his knees.
And while he's
talking to his boy,
a gigantic eagle
flies over the valley.
And the father says to his
boy, look, my son, in my time,
there were birds.
They were a hundred
times bigger than that
eagle up there in the sky.
Humans were sitting in
the belly of these birds.
There were little windows.
The humans were looking down.
And faster than an arrow,
these gigantic birds
were flying over the big waters.
They came to a country,
which had houses.
Their houses were so high they
were scratching the clouds.
Now, one generation passes.
The boy becomes a father, and
he has now his boy on his knees.
And again, an eagle
flies over the valley.
Now, what would the
father say to his boy?
You won't believe it, my son.
Your grandfather told
me once that there
were birds which were a hundred
times bigger than that eagle up
there, that humans were
sitting inside the birds.
So it's only two generations,
and from the reality
of our flying aircraft
becomes a mythology.
Mythology was always a
truth, not in the detail,
not precise, and
not in the dating.
But mythology always
has cores of truth.
And when the ancient Indians
describe flying machines--
vimanas--
and they described different
flying machines, that was true.
They even say that there
was no technology on Earth
to make these flying vimanas.
Or when, in the Drona Parva,
they describe atomic weapons.
A light brighter than the
sun, the elephants were dying,
et cetera.
That was true.
It was not an allegory.
Myths just don't not happen.
Myths always have a true core.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
All the gods in our
so-called mythologies
are related together.
Mythology was once reality, and
the different people came up
with different names, but the
meaning behind it is the same.
For example, I know from the
Maya literature, at least
in the Maya, I told you
the books were destroyed,
but new books were written
after the destruction,
the so-called
Chilam Balam books.
And there, the Maya
priests tell us
about the destruction of the
Earth by a gigantic flood.
But the same scene you
can read within Plato.
Plato is Greek.
Now, between the Maya--
Central America-- and Plato--
Greece-- are 15,000 kilometers
and the Atlantic Ocean.
So there was no
direct connection,
but they hand down
the same story,
because it was the
same story, just
written by different people.
Now, you never know at
what time it happened.
Compare it, again,
to Christianity.
In Christianity,
we have an example,
which we say Jesus Christ
was living in Jerusalem.
And we can date
Jerusalem, more or less,
2,000 years in the past.
We can even make
clear the location.
Jerusalem is in
today's land of Israel.
Now, the message of Jesus
went out over the planet.
And maybe a 1,000 years after
Jesus, in Africa, a tribe
hears for the first time
about Jesus' messages.
And now, they start to paint
and to construct a church,
in honor of Jesus.
It's the same
thing in old India.
Once these gods were a reality.
They were extraterrestrials.
They were teachers.
Now, the people separated
and spread out throughout
the planet Earth, and they
took their so-called myths--
in reality, stories--
with them, and they
rewrote them with other names.
But it's all the same story.
The gods descended,
in all the cultures,
were extraterrestrials.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I have studied really
many so-called mythologies
around the world from
different cultures and tribes.
And it always comes
to the same end.
The gods were teachers.
They taught humans in astronomy.
The gods knew something
about genetics,
because they made
genetic changes
in animals, mixed creatures,
and among the humans, too.
Because our ancestors, some
thousands of years ago,
did not have this knowledge
about astronomy, about
the calendar, about
genetics, the gods
must have been astronauts--
visitors, gods, from
another solar system.
I'm Erich von Daniken.
Join me next time on
"Beyond the Legends."
[THEME MUSIC]